# Bulk Memory Operations and Conditional Segment Initialization

## Motivation for Bulk Memory Operations

Some people have mentioned that `memcpy` and `memmove` functions are hot
when profiling some WebAssembly benchmarks. Some examples:

- https://github.com/WebAssembly/design/issues/236#issuecomment-283279499

> I've been looking at perf profiles for wasm unity benchmark a bit recently and see that some
  of the hottest functions are doing memcpy or memset like things. If this is any indication of
  normal wasm code patterns, I think we could see significant improvement with an intrinsic so
  it may be worth prioritizing.

- https://github.com/WebAssembly/design/issues/977#issue-204960079

> In a number of game engines I've been optimizing and benchmarking, interestingly the performance
  of memcpy() does show up relatively high in profiles. (~2%-5% of total execution time)

### Bulk Memory Operations Prototype

I implemented a prototype implementation of a `memory.copy` instruction in v8 which just calls out
to v8's [`MemMove` function](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/v8/src/utils.h?l=446). I compared
this to an implementation [generated by emscripten](https://gist.github.com/binji/c57dc945bba60985439ef8e5b574eee0) and currently used in the Unity demo. This implementation aligns then performs copies using `i32.load` and `i32.store`. I've also included performance achieved by unrolling this loop manually and increasing the size to `i64`.

Each test copies `size` bytes from one address to another, non-overlapping. This is repeated `N` times. Each row copies a total of 1 Gib of data, and only touches 1 Mib of memory in the source and destination ranges.

This is the core loop:

```javascript
  let mask = Mib - 1;
  let start = performance.now();
  for (let i = 0; i < N; ++i) {
    f(dst_base + dst, src_base + src, size);
    dst = (dst + size) & mask;
    src = (src + size) & mask;
  }
  let end = performance.now();
```

The code for the benchmark can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/binji/b8e8bc0c0121235d9f1668bc447c7f8c).
Note that this will not run properly without a WebAssembly implementation of `memory.copy`. For my tests, I
hacked a version of v8 to replace any exported function called `memcpy` or `memmove` with a new function with
the following contents:

```wasm
(func (param $dst i32) (param $src i32) (param $size i32) (result i32)
  get_local $dst
  get_local $src
  get_local $size
  memory.copy
  get_local $dst)
```

Here are the results on my machine (x86_64, 2.9GHz, L1 32k, L2 256k, L3 256k):

| | intrinsic | i64 load/store x 4 | i64 load/store x 2 | i32 load/store x 2 | i32 load/store |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| size=32b, N=33554432 | 1.382 Gib/s | 1.565 Gib/s | 1.493 Gib/s | 1.275 Gib/s | 1.166 Gib/s |
| size=64b, N=16777216 | 3.285 Gib/s | 2.669 Gib/s | 2.383 Gib/s | 1.861 Gib/s | 1.639 Gib/s |
| size=128b, N=8388608 | 6.162 Gib/s | 3.993 Gib/s | 3.480 Gib/s | 2.433 Gib/s | 2.060 Gib/s |
| size=256b, N=4194304 | 9.939 Gib/s | 5.323 Gib/s | 4.462 Gib/s | 2.724 Gib/s | 2.213 Gib/s |
| size=512b, N=2097152 | 15.777 Gib/s | 6.377 Gib/s | 4.913 Gib/s | 3.231 Gib/s | 2.457 Gib/s |
| size=1.0Kib, N=1048576 | 17.902 Gib/s | 7.010 Gib/s | 6.112 Gib/s | 3.568 Gib/s | 2.614 Gib/s |
| size=2.0Kib, N=524288 | 19.870 Gib/s | 8.248 Gib/s | 6.915 Gib/s | 3.764 Gib/s | 2.699 Gib/s |
| size=4.0Kib, N=262144 | 20.940 Gib/s | 9.145 Gib/s | 7.400 Gib/s | 3.871 Gib/s | 2.729 Gib/s |
| size=8.0Kib, N=131072 | 21.162 Gib/s | 9.258 Gib/s | 7.672 Gib/s | 3.925 Gib/s | 2.763 Gib/s |
| size=16.0Kib, N=65536 | 20.991 Gib/s | 9.758 Gib/s | 7.756 Gib/s | 3.945 Gib/s | 2.773 Gib/s |
| size=32.0Kib, N=32768 | 22.504 Gib/s | 9.956 Gib/s | 7.861 Gib/s | 3.966 Gib/s | 2.780 Gib/s |
| size=64.0Kib, N=16384 | 22.534 Gib/s | 10.088 Gib/s | 7.931 Gib/s | 3.974 Gib/s | 2.782 Gib/s |
| size=128.0Kib, N=8192 | 29.728 Gib/s | 10.032 Gib/s | 7.934 Gib/s | 3.975 Gib/s | 2.782 Gib/s |
| size=256.0Kib, N=4096 | 29.742 Gib/s | 10.116 Gib/s | 7.625 Gib/s | 3.886 Gib/s | 2.781 Gib/s |
| size=512.0Kib, N=2048 | 29.994 Gib/s | 10.090 Gib/s | 7.627 Gib/s | 3.985 Gib/s | 2.785 Gib/s |
| size=1.0Mib, N=1024 | 11.760 Gib/s | 10.091 Gib/s | 7.959 Gib/s | 3.989 Gib/s | 2.787 Gib/s |


## Motivation for Conditional Segment Initialization

Under the current [threading proposal](https://github.com/WebAssembly/threads),
to share a module between multiple agents, the module must be instantiated
multiple times: once per agent. Instantiation initializes linear memory with
the contents in the module's data segments. If the memory is shared between
multiple agents, it will be initialized multiple times, potentially overwriting
stores that occurred after the previous initializations.

For example:

```webassembly
;; The module.
(module
  (memory (export "memory") 1)

  ;; Some value used as a counter.
  (data (i32.const 0) "\0")

  ;; Add one to the counter.
  (func (export "addOne")
    (i32.store8
      (i32.const 0)
      (i32.add
        (i32.load8_u (i32.const 0))
        (i32.const 1)))
  )
)
```

```javascript
// main.js
let moduleBytes = ...;

WebAssembly.instantiate(moduleBytes).then(
  ({module, instance}) => {
    // Increment our counter.
    instance.exports.addOne();

    // Spawn a new Worker.
    let worker = new Worker('worker.js');

    // Send the module to the new Worker.
    worker.postMessage(module);
  });

// worker.js

function onmessage(event) {
  let module = event.data;

  // Use the module to create another instance.
  WebAssembly.instantiate(module).then(
    (instance) => {
      // Oops, our counter has been clobbered.
    });
}

```

This can be worked around by storing the data segments in a separate module
which is only instantiated once, then exporting this memory to be used by
another module that contains only code. This works, but it cumbersome since it
requires two modules where one should be enough.


## Motivation for combining Bulk Memory Operations + Conditional Segment Initialization Proposals

When [discussing the design of Conditional Segment Initialization](https://github.com/WebAssembly/threads/issues/62),
we found that programmatic memory initialization from a read-only data segment
(via the `memory.init` instruction, described below) has similar behavior to the
proposed instruction to copy memory regions from linear memory (`memory.copy`,
also described below.)

## Design

Copying between regions in linear memory or a table is accomplished with the
new `*.copy` instructions:

* `memory.copy`: copy from one region of linear memory to another
* `table.copy`: copy from one region of a table to another

Filling a memory region can be accomplished with `memory.fill`:

* `memory.fill`: fill a region of linear memory with a given byte value

TODO: should we provide `memory.clear` and `table.clear` instead?

The [binary format for the data
section](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/binary/modules.html#binary-datasec)
currently has a collection of segments, each of which has a memory index, an
initializer expression for its offset, and its raw data.

Since WebAssembly currently does not allow for multiple memories, the memory
index of each segment must be zero. We can repurpose this 32-bit integer as a
flags field where new meaning is attached to nonzero values.

When the new flags field is `1`, this segment is _passive_. A passive segment
will not be automatically copied into the memory or table on instantiation, and
must instead be applied manually using the following new instructions:

* `memory.init`: copy a region from a data segment
* `table.init`: copy a region from an element segment

A passive segment has no initializer expression, since it will be specified
as an operand to `memory.init` or `table.init`.

Segments can also be discarded by using the following new instructions:

* `data.drop`: prevent further use of a data segment
* `elem.drop`: prevent further use of an element segment

An active segment is equivalent to a passive segment, but with an implicit
`memory.init` followed by a `data.drop` (or `table.init` followed by a
`elem.drop`) that is prepended to the module's start function.

The new encoding of a data segment is now:

| Field | Type | Present? | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| flags | `varuint32` | always | Flags for passive and presence of fields below, only values of 0, 1, and 2 are valid |
| index | `varuint32`? | flags = 2 | Memory index; 0 if the field is not present |
| offset | `init_expr`? | flags != 1 | an `i32` initializer expression for offset |
| size | `varuint32` | always | size of `data` (in bytes) |
| data | `bytes` | always | sequence of `size` bytes |

Another way of looking at it:

| Flags | Active? | index | offset |
| - | - | - | - |
| 0 | Active | Always 0 | Present |
| 1 | Passive | - | -  |
| 2 | Active | Present | Present |

### Element segments

The new binary format for element segments is similar to the new format for data segments, but
also includes an element type when the segment is passive. A passive segment also has a sequence
of `expr`s instead of function indices.

| Field | Type | Present? | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| flags | `varuint32` | always | Flags for passive and presence of fields below, only values of 0, 1, and 2 are valid |
| index | `varuint32`? | flags = 2 |  Table index; 0 if the field is not present  |
| element_type | `elem_type`? | flags = 1 | element type of this segment; `anyfunc` if not present |
| offset | `init_expr`? | flags != 1 | an `i32` initializer expression for offset |
| count | `varuint32` | always | number of elements |
| elems | `varuint32*` | flags != 1 | sequence of function indices |
| elems | `elem_expr*` | flags = 1 | sequence of element expressions |

Another way of looking at it:

| Flags | Active? | index | element_type | offset |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| 0 | Active | Always 0 | Always `anyfunc` | Present |
| 1 | Passive | - | Present | - |
| 2 | Active | Present | Always `anyfunc` | Present |

An `elem_expr` is like an `init_expr`, but can only contain expressions of the following sequences:

| Binary | Text | Description |
| - | - | - |
| `0xd0 0x0b` | `ref.null end` | Returns a null reference |
| `0xd2 varuint32 0x0b` | `ref.func $funcidx end` | Returns a reference to function `$funcidx` |

TODO: coordinate with other proposals to determine the binary encoding for `ref.null` and `ref.func`.

### Segment Initialization

In the MVP, segments are initialized during module instantiation. If any segment
would be initialized out-of-bounds, then the memory or table instance is not
modified.

This behavior is changed in the bulk memory proposal.

Each active segment is initialized in module-definition order. For each
segment, each byte in the data segment is copied into the memory, in order of
lowest to highest addresses. If, for a given byte, the copy is out-of-bounds,
instantiation fails and no further bytes in this segment nor further segments
are copied. Bytes written before this point stay written.

The behavior of element segment initialization is changed similarly, with the
difference that elements are copied from element segments into tables, instead
of bytes being copied from data segments into memories.

### `memory.init` instruction

The `memory.init` instruction copies data from a given passive segment into a target
memory. The target memory and source segment are given as immediates.

The instruction has the signature `[i32 i32 i32] -> []`. The parameters are, in order:

- top-2: destination address
- top-1: offset into the source segment
- top-0: size of memory region in bytes

It is a validation error to use `memory.init` with an out-of-bounds segment index.

A trap occurs if:
* the segment is used after it has been dropped via `data.drop`. This includes
  active segments that were dropped after being copied into memory during module
  instantiation.
* any of the accessed bytes lies outside the source data segment or the target memory

Note that it is allowed to use `memory.init` on the same data segment more than
once.

Initialization takes place bytewise from lower addresses toward higher
addresses.  A trap resulting from an access outside the source data
segment or target memory only occurs once the first byte that is
outside the source or target is reached.  Bytes written before the
trap stay written.

(Data are read and written as-if individual bytes were read and
written, but various optimizations are possible that avoid reading and
writing only individual bytes.)

Note that the semantics require bytewise accesses, so a trap that
might result from, say, reading a sequence of several words before
writing any, will have to be handled carefully: the reads that
succeeded will have to be written, if possible.

### `data.drop` instruction

The `data.drop` instruction prevents further use of a given segment. After a
data segment has been dropped, it is no longer valid to use it in a `memory.init`
instruction. This instruction is intended to be used as an optimization hint to
the WebAssembly implementation. After a memory segment is dropped its data can
no longer be retrieved, so the memory used by this segment may be freed.

It is a validation error to use `data.drop` with an out-of-bounds segment index.

A trap occurs if the segment was already dropped. This includes active segments
that were dropped after being copied into memory during module instantiation.

### `memory.copy` instruction

Copy data from a source memory region to destination region.  The
regions are said to overlap if they are in the same memory and the
start address of one region is one of the addresses that's read or
written (by the copy operation) in the other region.

This instruction has two immediate arguments: the source and
destination memory indices. They currently both must be zero.

If the source region starts at a lower address than the target region, then the
copy takes place as if from higher to lower addresses: the highest source
address is read first and the value is written to the highest target address,
then the next highest, and so on.  Otherwise, the copy takes place as if from
lower to higher addresses: the lowest source address is read first and the
value is written to the lowest target address, then the next lowest, and so on.

(The direction of the copy is defined in order to future-proof
`memory.copy` for shared memory and a memory read/write protection
feature.)

The instruction has the signature `[i32 i32 i32] -> []`. The parameters are, in order:

- top-2: destination address
- top-1: source address
- top-0: size of memory region in bytes

A trap occurs if:
* any of the accessed bytes lies outside the source or target memory

A trap resulting from an access outside the source or target region
only occurs once the first byte that is outside the source or target
is reached (in the defined copy order).  Bytes written before the trap
stay written.

(Data are read and written as-if individual bytes were read and
written, but various optimizations are possible that avoid reading and
writing only individual bytes.)

### `memory.fill` instruction

Set all bytes in a memory region to a given byte. This instruction has an
immediate argument of which memory to operate on, and it must be zero for now.

The instruction has the signature `[i32 i32 i32] -> []`. The parameters are, in order:

- top-2: destination address
- top-1: byte value to set
- top-0: size of memory region in bytes

A trap occurs if:
* any of the accessed bytes lies outside the target memory

Filling takes place bytewise from lower addresses toward higher
addresses.  A trap resulting from an access outside the target memory
only occurs once the first byte that is outside the target is reached.
Bytes written before the trap stay written.

(Data are written as-if individual bytes were written, but various
optimizations are possible that avoid writing only individual bytes.)

### `table.init`, `elem.drop`, and `table.copy` instructions

The `table.*` instructions behave similary to the `memory.*` instructions, with
the difference that they operate on element segments and tables, instead of
data segments and memories. The offset and length operands of `table.init` and
`table.copy` have element units instead of bytes as well.

## Passive Segment Initialization Example

Consider if there are two data sections, the first is always active and the
second is conditionally active if global 0 has a non-zero value. This could be
implemented as follows:

```webassembly
(import "a" "global" (global i32))  ;; global 0
(memory 1)
(data (i32.const 0) "hello")   ;; data segment 0, is active so always copied
(data passive "goodbye")       ;; data segment 1, is passive

(func $start
  (if (get_global 0)

    ;; copy data segment 1 into memory 0 (the 0 is implicit)
    (memory.init 1
      (i32.const 16)    ;; target offset
      (i32.const 0)     ;; source offset
      (i32.const 7))    ;; length

    ;; The memory used by this segment is no longer needed, so this segment can
    ;; be dropped.
    (data.drop 1))
)
```

### Instruction encoding

All bulk memory instructions are encoded as a 0xfc prefix byte, followed by
another opcode, optionally followed by more immediates:

```
instr ::= ...
        | 0xfc operation:uint8 ...
```

| Name | Opcode | Immediate | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| `memory.init` | `0xfc 0x08` | `segment:varuint32`, `memory:0x00` | :thinking: copy from a passive data segment to linear memory |
| `data.drop` | `0xfc 0x09` | `segment:varuint32` | :thinking: prevent further use of passive data segment |
| `memory.copy` | `0xfc 0x0a` | `memory_src:0x00` `memory_dst:0x00` | :thinking: copy from one region of linear memory to another region |
| `memory.fill` | `0xfc 0x0b` | `memory:0x00` | :thinking: fill a region of linear memory with a given byte value |
| `table.init` | `0xfc 0x0c` | `segment:varuint32`, `table:0x00` | :thinking: copy from a passive element segment to a table |
| `elem.drop` | `0xfc 0x0d` | `segment:varuint32` | :thinking: prevent further use of a passive element segment |
| `table.copy` | `0xfc 0x0e` | `table_src:0x00` `table_dst:0x00` | :thinking: copy from one region of a table to another region |

### `DataCount` section

The WebAssembly binary format is designed to be validated in a single pass. If
a section requires information to validate, it is guaranteed that this
information will be present in a previous section.

The `memory.{init,drop}` instructions break this guarantee. Both of these
instructions are used in the `Code` section. They each have a data segment
index immediate, but the vector of data segments is not available until the
`Data` section is parsed, which occurs after the `Code` section.

To keep single-pass validation, the number of data segments defined in the
`Data` section must be available before the `Code` section. This information is
provided in a new `DataCount` section with the code `12`.

Like all sections, the `DataCount` section is optional. If present, it must
appear in the following order:

| Section Name | Code | Description |
| ------------ | ---- | ----------- |
| Type | `1` | Function signature declarations |
| Import | `2` | Import declarations |
| Function | `3` | Function declarations |
| Table | `4` | Indirect function table and other tables |
| Memory | `5` | Memory attributes |
| Global | `6` | Global declarations |
| Export | `7` | Exports |
| Start | `8` | Start function declaration |
| Element | `9` | Elements section |
| DataCount | `12` | Data segment count |
| Code | `10` | Function bodies (code) |
| Data | `11` | Data segments |

The `DataCount` section has just one field that specifies the number of data
segments in the `Data` section:

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| count | `varuint32` | count of data segments in `Data` section |

It is a validation error if `count` is not equal to the number of data segments
in the `Data` section. It is also a validation error if the `DataCount` section
is omitted and a `memory.init` or `data.drop` instruction is used.
