spectec/test-prose/TEST.md, before:

# Preview

```sh
$ (cd ../spec && dune exec ../src/exe-watsup/main.exe -- *.watsup -v -l --totalize --sideconditions --animate --prose)
watsup 0.3 generator
== Parsing...
== Elaboration...
== IL Validation...
== Function totalization...
== IL Validation...
== Side condition inference
== IL Validation...
== Animate
Animation failed:if ($bytes_(!($size(nt <: valtype)), c) = $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (!($size(nt <: valtype)) / 8)])
Animation failed:where $bytes_(!($size(nt <: valtype)), c) := $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (!($size(nt <: valtype)) / 8)]
Animation failed:if ($bytes_(n, c) = $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (n / 8)])
Animation failed:where $bytes_(n, c) := $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (n / 8)]
== IL Validation...
== Prose Generation...
Invalid expression `!($default_(t))` to be IR identifier.
Invalid premise `(if ($default_(t) =/= ?()))*{t}` to be IR instr.
unreachable
1. Trap.

nop
1. Do nothing.

drop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.

select
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val_2 from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop val_1 from the stack.
7. If c is not 0, then:
  a. Push val_1 to the stack.
8. If c is 0, then:
  a. Push val_2 to the stack.

block
1. Assert: due to validation, there are at least k values on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val^k from the stack.
3. Let YetE (`%->%`(tmp0, tmp1)) be bt.
4. Let t_1^k be tmp0.
5. Let t_2^n be tmp1.
6. If the length of t_1^k is k, then:
  a. If the length of t_2^n is n, then:
    1) If the length of val^k is k, then:
      a) Let L be YetE ().
      b) Enter the block Yet with label YetE ().

loop
1. Assert: due to validation, there are at least k values on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val^k from the stack.
3. Let YetE (`%->%`(tmp0, tmp1)) be bt.
4. Let t_1^k be tmp0.
5. Let t_2^n be tmp1.
6. If the length of t_1^k is k, then:
  a. If the length of t_2^n is n, then:
    1) If the length of val^k is k, then:
      a) Let L be YetE ().
      b) Enter the block Yet with label YetE ().

if
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. If c is not 0, then:
  a. Execute (BLOCK bt instr_1^*).
4. If c is 0, then:
  a. Execute (BLOCK bt instr_2^*).

label
1. Pop val^* from the stack.
2. Assert: Assert: due to validation, the label L is now on the top of the stack.
3. Pop the label from the stack.
4. Push val^* to the stack.

br
1. Pop [val'^*, [val^n, [[YetE (BR_admininstr(0))], instr^*]]] from the stack.
2. Assert: Assert: due to validation, the label L is now on the top of the stack.
3. Pop the label from the stack.
4. If the length of val^n is n, then:
  a. Push val^n to the stack.
  b. Push instr'^* to the stack.
5. Push val^* to the stack.
6. Execute (BR l).

br_if
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. If c is not 0, then:
  a. Execute (BR l).
4. If c is 0, then:
  a. Do nothing.

br_table
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If i < the length of l^*, then:
  a. Execute (BR l^*[i]).
4. If i ≥ the length of l^*, then:
  a. Execute (BR l').

frame
1. Let f be the current frame.
2. Let n be the arity of f.
3. Assert: due to validation, there are at least n values on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val^n from the stack.
5. Assert: due to validation, the frame F is now on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the frame from the stack.
7. If the length of val^n is n, then:
  a. Push val^n to the stack.

return
1. Let f be the current frame.
2. Let n be the arity of f.
3. Assert: due to validation, there are at least n values on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val^n from the stack.
5. Assert: due to validation, the stack contains at least one frame.
6. While the top of the stack is not a frame, do:
  a. Pop the top element from the stack.
7. Assert: due to validation, the frame F is now on the top of the stack.
8. Pop the frame from the stack.
9. If the length of val^n is n, then:
  a. Push val^n to the stack.
10. Push val^* to the stack.
11. Execute (RETURN).

unop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
3. Let [c] be $unop(unop, nt, c_1).
4. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
5. If $unop(unop, nt, c_1) is [], then:
  a. Trap.

binop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_2 from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
5. Let [c] be $binop(binop, nt, c_1, c_2).
6. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
7. If $binop(binop, nt, c_1, c_2) is [], then:
  a. Trap.

testop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
3. Let c be $testop(testop, nt, c_1).
4. Push the value i32.CONST c to the stack.

relop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_2 from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
5. Let c be $relop(relop, nt, c_1, c_2).
6. Push the value i32.CONST c to the stack.

extend
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c from the stack.
3. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Push the value nt.CONST $ext(n, YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))), YetE (S_sx), c) to the stack.

cvtop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
3. Let [c] be $cvtop(nt_1, cvtop, nt_2, sx^?, c_1).
4. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
5. If $cvtop(nt_1, cvtop, nt_2, sx^?, c_1) is [], then:
  a. Trap.

ref.is_null
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. If YetC (typeof(val) = REF.NULL_val), then:
  a. Let the value ref.null rt be val.
  b. Push the value i32.CONST 1 to the stack.
4. Else:
  a. Push the value i32.CONST 0 to the stack.

local.tee
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. Push val to the stack.
4. Push val to the stack.
5. Execute (LOCAL.SET x).

call
1. If x < the length of $funcaddr(z), then:
  a. Execute (CALL_ADDR $funcaddr(z)[x]).

call_indirect
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If i < the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. If YetC (typeof($table(z, x)[i]) = REF.FUNC_ADDR_ref), then:
    1) Let the value ref.funcaddr a be $table(z, x)[i].
    2) If a < the length of $funcinst(z), then:
      a) Let YetE (`%;%`(m, func)) be $funcinst(z)[a].
      b) Execute (CALL_ADDR a).
    3) Else:
      a) Trap.
  b. Else:
    1) Trap.
4. Else:
  a. Trap.

call_addr
1. Assert: due to validation, there are at least k values on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val^k from the stack.
3. If a < the length of $funcinst(z), then:
  a. Let YetE (`%;%`(m, tmp0)) be $funcinst(z)[a].
  b. Let YetE (`FUNC%%*%`(tmp1, t*{t}, instr*{instr})) be tmp0.
  c. Let YetE (`%->%`(tmp2, tmp3)) be tmp1.
  d. Let t_1^k be tmp2.
  e. Let t_2^n be tmp3.
  f. If the length of t_1^k is k, then:
    1) If the length of t_2^n is n, then:
      a) If the length of val^k is k, then:
        1. YetI: (if ($default_(t) =/= ?()))*{t}.
        2. Let f be { LOCAL [val^k, Yet^*], MODULE m }.
        3. Let F be { module YetE (f.module), locals YetE (val^n :: default_t*) }.
        4. Push the activation of F with arity n to the stack.

ref.func
1. If x < the length of $funcaddr(z), then:
  a. Push the value ref.funcaddr $funcaddr(z)[x] to the stack.

local.get
1. Push $local(z, x) to the stack.

global.get
1. Push $global(z, x) to the stack.

table.get
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If i ≥ the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
4. If i < the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Push $table(z, x)[i] to the stack.

table.size
1. Let n be the length of $table(z, x).
2. Push the value i32.CONST n to the stack.

table.fill
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
    2) Push val to the stack.
    3) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
    4) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
    5) Push val to the stack.
    6) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
    7) Execute (TABLE.FILL x).

table.copy
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $table(z, y) or (j + n) > the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If j ≤ i, then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
      c) Execute (TABLE.GET y).
      d) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (TABLE.COPY x y).
    2) Else:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST ((j + n) - 1) to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST ((i + n) - 1) to the stack.
      c) Execute (TABLE.GET y).
      d) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (TABLE.COPY x y).

table.init
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $elem(z, y) or (j + n) > the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If i < the length of $elem(z, y), then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push $elem(z, y)[i] to the stack.
      c) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
      d) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      g) Execute (TABLE.INIT x y).

load
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. If ((i + n_O) + (YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))) / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
    1) Trap.
4. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Let $bytes_(YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))), c) be YetE ($mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (!($size(nt <: valtype)) / 8)]).
  b. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
5. If ((i + n_O) + (n / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
6. Let $bytes_(n, c) be YetE ($mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (n / 8)]).
7. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.

memory.fill
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
    2) Push val to the stack.
    3) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
    4) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
    5) Push val to the stack.
    6) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
    7) Execute (MEMORY.FILL).

memory.copy
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $table(z, 0) or (j + n) > the length of $table(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If j ≤ i, then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
      c) Execute (LOAD YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?((8, U_sx))) 0 0).
      d) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (MEMORY.COPY).
    2) Else:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST ((j + n) - 1) to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST ((i + n) - 1) to the stack.
      c) Execute (LOAD YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?((8, U_sx))) 0 0).
      d) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (MEMORY.COPY).

memory.init
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $data(z, x) or (j + n) > the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If i < the length of $data(z, x), then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST $data(z, x)[i] to the stack.
      c) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
      d) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      g) Execute (MEMORY.INIT x).

local.set
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. Perform $with_local(z, x, val).

global.set
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. Perform $with_global(z, x, val).

table.set
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop ref from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. If i ≥ the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
6. If i < the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Perform $with_table(z, x, i, ref).

table.grow
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop ref from the stack.
5. Either:
  a. Perform $with_tableext(z, x, YetE (ref^n{})).
  b. Push the value i32.CONST the length of $table(z, x) to the stack.
6. Or:
  a. Push the value i32.CONST -1 to the stack.

elem.drop
1. Perform $with_elem(z, x, []).

store
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. If ((i + n_O) + (YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))) / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
    1) Trap.
6. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Let b^* be $bytes_(YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))), c).
  b. Perform $with_mem(z, 0, (i + n_O), (YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))) / 8), b^*).
7. If ((i + n_O) + (n / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Let b^* be $bytes_(n, $wrap_(YetE ((!($size(nt <: valtype)), n)), c)).
  b. Perform $with_mem(z, 0, (i + n_O), (n / 8), b^*).

memory.grow
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Either:
  a. Perform $with_memext(z, 0, YetE (0^((n * 64) * $Ki){})).
  b. Push the value i32.CONST the length of $mem(z, 0) to the stack.
4. Or:
  a. Push the value i32.CONST -1 to the stack.

data.drop
1. Perform $with_data(z, x, []).

== IR Validation...

unreachable
Ok

nop
Ok

drop
Ok

select
Ok

block
Failure("LetI (YetE (`%->%`(tmp0, tmp1)), NameE (N(bt)))")

loop
Failure("LetI (YetE (`%->%`(tmp0, tmp1)), NameE (N(bt)))")

if
Failure("Not found: SupN(N(instr_1), *)")

label
Ok

br
Failure("PopI (ListE ([NameE (SupN(N(val'), *)), ListE ([NameE (SupN(N(val), n)), ListE ([ListE ([YetE (BR_admininstr(0))]), NameE (SupN(N(instr), *))])])]))")

br_if
Ok

br_table
Failure("IndexAccessE (NameE (SupN(N(l), *)), NameE (N(i)))")

frame
Failure("FrameE")

return
Failure("FrameE")

unop
Ok

binop
Ok

testop
Ok

relop
Ok

extend
Failure("Not found: N(nt)")

cvtop
Failure("Not found: N(nt_1)")

ref.is_null
Ok

local.tee
Ok

call
Failure("IndexAccessE (AppE (N(funcaddr), [ NameE (N(z)) ]), NameE (N(x)))")

call_indirect
Failure("LetI (RefFuncAddrE (NameE (N(a))), IndexAccessE (AppE (N(table), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]), NameE (N(i))))")

call_addr
Failure("Not found: N(a)")

ref.func
Failure("RefFuncAddrE (IndexAccessE (AppE (N(funcaddr), [ NameE (N(z)) ]), NameE (N(x))))")

local.get
Failure("AppE (N(local), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]): TopT is not subtype of WasmValueTopT")

global.get
Failure("AppE (N(global), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]): TopT is not subtype of WasmValueTopT")

table.get
Failure("IndexAccessE (AppE (N(table), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]), NameE (N(i)))")

table.size
Ok

table.fill
Ok

table.copy
Ok

table.init
Failure("IndexAccessE (AppE (N(elem), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(y)) ]), NameE (N(i)))")

load
Failure("Not found: N(nt)")

memory.fill
Failure("YetE (I32_numtype)")

memory.copy
Failure("YetE (I32_numtype)")

memory.init
Failure("YetE (I32_numtype)")

local.set
Ok

global.set
Ok

table.set
Ok

table.grow
Failure("YetE (ref^n{})")

elem.drop
Ok

store
Failure("Not found: N(nt)")

memory.grow
Failure("YetE (0^((n * 64) * $Ki){})")

data.drop
Ok
Pass/Total: [20/44]
== Complete.
```

Commit message:

Replace Sup name to Iter expression

spectec/test-prose/TEST.md, after:

# Preview

```sh
$ (cd ../spec && dune exec ../src/exe-watsup/main.exe -- *.watsup -v -l --totalize --sideconditions --animate --prose)
watsup 0.3 generator
== Parsing...
== Elaboration...
== IL Validation...
== Function totalization...
== IL Validation...
== Side condition inference
== IL Validation...
== Animate
Animation failed:if ($bytes_(!($size(nt <: valtype)), c) = $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (!($size(nt <: valtype)) / 8)])
Animation failed:where $bytes_(!($size(nt <: valtype)), c) := $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (!($size(nt <: valtype)) / 8)]
Animation failed:if ($bytes_(n, c) = $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (n / 8)])
Animation failed:where $bytes_(n, c) := $mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (n / 8)]
== IL Validation...
== Prose Generation...
Invalid expression `!($default_(t))` to be IR identifier.
Invalid premise `(if ($default_(t) =/= ?()))*{t}` to be IR instr.
unreachable
1. Trap.

nop
1. Do nothing.

drop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.

select
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val_2 from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop val_1 from the stack.
7. If c is not 0, then:
  a. Push val_1 to the stack.
8. If c is 0, then:
  a. Push val_2 to the stack.

block
1. Assert: due to validation, there are at least k values on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val^k from the stack.
3. Let YetE (`%->%`(tmp0, tmp1)) be bt.
4. Let t_1^k be tmp0.
5. Let t_2^n be tmp1.
6. If the length of t_1^k is k, then:
  a. If the length of t_2^n is n, then:
    1) If the length of val^k is k, then:
      a) Let L be YetE ().
      b) Enter the block Yet with label YetE ().

loop
1. Assert: due to validation, there are at least k values on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val^k from the stack.
3. Let YetE (`%->%`(tmp0, tmp1)) be bt.
4. Let t_1^k be tmp0.
5. Let t_2^n be tmp1.
6. If the length of t_1^k is k, then:
  a. If the length of t_2^n is n, then:
    1) If the length of val^k is k, then:
      a) Let L be YetE ().
      b) Enter the block Yet with label YetE ().

if
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. If c is not 0, then:
  a. Execute (BLOCK bt instr_1*).
4. If c is 0, then:
  a. Execute (BLOCK bt instr_2*).

label
1. Pop val* from the stack.
2. Assert: Assert: due to validation, the label L is now on the top of the stack.
3. Pop the label from the stack.
4. Push val* to the stack.

br
1. Pop [val'*, [val^n, [[YetE (BR_admininstr(0))], instr*]]] from the stack.
2. Assert: Assert: due to validation, the label L is now on the top of the stack.
3. Pop the label from the stack.
4. If the length of val^n is n, then:
  a. Push val^n to the stack.
  b. Push instr'* to the stack.
5. Push val* to the stack.
6. Execute (BR l).

br_if
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. If c is not 0, then:
  a. Execute (BR l).
4. If c is 0, then:
  a. Do nothing.

br_table
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If i < the length of l*, then:
  a. Execute (BR l*[i]).
4. If i ≥ the length of l*, then:
  a. Execute (BR l').

frame
1. Let f be the current frame.
2. Let n be the arity of f.
3. Assert: due to validation, there are at least n values on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val^n from the stack.
5. Assert: due to validation, the frame F is now on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the frame from the stack.
7. If the length of val^n is n, then:
  a. Push val^n to the stack.

return
1. Let f be the current frame.
2. Let n be the arity of f.
3. Assert: due to validation, there are at least n values on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val^n from the stack.
5. Assert: due to validation, the stack contains at least one frame.
6. While the top of the stack is not a frame, do:
  a. Pop the top element from the stack.
7. Assert: due to validation, the frame F is now on the top of the stack.
8. Pop the frame from the stack.
9. If the length of val^n is n, then:
  a. Push val^n to the stack.
10. Push val* to the stack.
11. Execute (RETURN).

unop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
3. Let [c] be $unop(unop, nt, c_1).
4. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
5. If $unop(unop, nt, c_1) is [], then:
  a. Trap.

binop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_2 from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
5. Let [c] be $binop(binop, nt, c_1, c_2).
6. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
7. If $binop(binop, nt, c_1, c_2) is [], then:
  a. Trap.

testop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
3. Let c be $testop(testop, nt, c_1).
4. Push the value i32.CONST c to the stack.

relop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_2 from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
5. Let c be $relop(relop, nt, c_1, c_2).
6. Push the value i32.CONST c to the stack.

extend
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c from the stack.
3. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Push the value nt.CONST $ext(n, YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))), YetE (S_sx), c) to the stack.

cvtop
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value nt.CONST c_1 from the stack.
3. Let [c] be $cvtop(nt_1, cvtop, nt_2, sx?, c_1).
4. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
5. If $cvtop(nt_1, cvtop, nt_2, sx?, c_1) is [], then:
  a. Trap.

ref.is_null
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. If YetC (typeof(val) = REF.NULL_val), then:
  a. Let the value ref.null rt be val.
  b. Push the value i32.CONST 1 to the stack.
4. Else:
  a. Push the value i32.CONST 0 to the stack.

local.tee
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. Push val to the stack.
4. Push val to the stack.
5. Execute (LOCAL.SET x).

call
1. If x < the length of $funcaddr(z), then:
  a. Execute (CALL_ADDR $funcaddr(z)[x]).

call_indirect
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If i < the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. If YetC (typeof($table(z, x)[i]) = REF.FUNC_ADDR_ref), then:
    1) Let the value ref.funcaddr a be $table(z, x)[i].
    2) If a < the length of $funcinst(z), then:
      a) Let YetE (`%;%`(m, func)) be $funcinst(z)[a].
      b) Execute (CALL_ADDR a).
    3) Else:
      a) Trap.
  b. Else:
    1) Trap.
4. Else:
  a. Trap.

call_addr
1. Assert: due to validation, there are at least k values on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val^k from the stack.
3. If a < the length of $funcinst(z), then:
  a. Let YetE (`%;%`(m, tmp0)) be $funcinst(z)[a].
  b. Let YetE (`FUNC%%*%`(tmp1, t*{t}, instr*{instr})) be tmp0.
  c. Let YetE (`%->%`(tmp2, tmp3)) be tmp1.
  d. Let t_1^k be tmp2.
  e. Let t_2^n be tmp3.
  f. If the length of t_1^k is k, then:
    1) If the length of t_2^n is n, then:
      a) If the length of val^k is k, then:
        1. YetI: (if ($default_(t) =/= ?()))*{t}.
        2. Let f be { LOCAL [val^k, Yet*], MODULE m }.
        3. Let F be { module YetE (f.module), locals YetE (val^n :: default_t*) }.
        4. Push the activation of F with arity n to the stack.

ref.func
1. If x < the length of $funcaddr(z), then:
  a. Push the value ref.funcaddr $funcaddr(z)[x] to the stack.

local.get
1. Push $local(z, x) to the stack.

global.get
1. Push $global(z, x) to the stack.

table.get
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If i ≥ the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
4. If i < the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Push $table(z, x)[i] to the stack.

table.size
1. Let n be the length of $table(z, x).
2. Push the value i32.CONST n to the stack.

table.fill
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
    2) Push val to the stack.
    3) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
    4) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
    5) Push val to the stack.
    6) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
    7) Execute (TABLE.FILL x).

table.copy
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $table(z, y) or (j + n) > the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If j ≤ i, then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
      c) Execute (TABLE.GET y).
      d) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (TABLE.COPY x y).
    2) Else:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST ((j + n) - 1) to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST ((i + n) - 1) to the stack.
      c) Execute (TABLE.GET y).
      d) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (TABLE.COPY x y).

table.init
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $elem(z, y) or (j + n) > the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If i < the length of $elem(z, y), then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push $elem(z, y)[i] to the stack.
      c) Execute (TABLE.SET x).
      d) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      g) Execute (TABLE.INIT x y).

load
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
3. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. If ((i + n_O) + (YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))) / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
    1) Trap.
4. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Let $bytes_(YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))), c) be YetE ($mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (!($size(nt <: valtype)) / 8)]).
  b. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.
5. If ((i + n_O) + (n / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
6. Let $bytes_(n, c) be YetE ($mem(z, 0)[(i + n_O) : (n / 8)]).
7. Push the value nt.CONST c to the stack.

memory.fill
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop val from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
    2) Push val to the stack.
    3) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
    4) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
    5) Push val to the stack.
    6) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
    7) Execute (MEMORY.FILL).

memory.copy
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $table(z, 0) or (j + n) > the length of $table(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If j ≤ i, then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST i to the stack.
      c) Execute (LOAD YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?((8, U_sx))) 0 0).
      d) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (MEMORY.COPY).
    2) Else:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST ((j + n) - 1) to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST ((i + n) - 1) to the stack.
      c) Execute (LOAD YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?((8, U_sx))) 0 0).
      d) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      g) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      h) Execute (MEMORY.COPY).

memory.init
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
6. Pop the value i32.CONST j from the stack.
7. If (i + n) > the length of $data(z, x) or (j + n) > the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. Else:
  a. If n is 0, then:
    1) Do nothing.
  b. Else:
    1) If i < the length of $data(z, x), then:
      a) Push the value i32.CONST j to the stack.
      b) Push the value i32.CONST $data(z, x)[i] to the stack.
      c) Execute (STORE YetE (I32_numtype) YetE (?(8)) 0 0).
      d) Push the value i32.CONST (j + 1) to the stack.
      e) Push the value i32.CONST (i + 1) to the stack.
      f) Push the value i32.CONST (n - 1) to the stack.
      g) Execute (MEMORY.INIT x).

local.set
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. Perform $with_local(z, x, val).

global.set
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop val from the stack.
3. Perform $with_global(z, x, val).

table.set
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop ref from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. If i ≥ the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Trap.
6. If i < the length of $table(z, x), then:
  a. Perform $with_table(z, x, i, ref).

table.grow
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop ref from the stack.
5. Either:
  a. Perform $with_tableext(z, x, YetE (ref^n{})).
  b. Push the value i32.CONST the length of $table(z, x) to the stack.
6. Or:
  a. Push the value i32.CONST -1 to the stack.

elem.drop
1. Perform $with_elem(z, x, []).

store
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST c from the stack.
3. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
4. Pop the value i32.CONST i from the stack.
5. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. If ((i + n_O) + (YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))) / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
    1) Trap.
6. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Let b* be $bytes_(YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))), c).
  b. Perform $with_mem(z, 0, (i + n_O), (YetE (!($size(nt <: valtype))) / 8), b*).
7. If ((i + n_O) + (n / 8)) ≥ the length of $mem(z, 0), then:
  a. Trap.
8. If $size(nt) is not YetE (?()), then:
  a. Let b* be $bytes_(n, $wrap_(YetE ((!($size(nt <: valtype)), n)), c)).
  b. Perform $with_mem(z, 0, (i + n_O), (n / 8), b*).

memory.grow
1. Assert: Due to validation, a value of value type i32 is on the top of the stack.
2. Pop the value i32.CONST n from the stack.
3. Either:
  a. Perform $with_memext(z, 0, YetE (0^((n * 64) * $Ki){})).
  b. Push the value i32.CONST the length of $mem(z, 0) to the stack.
4. Or:
  a. Push the value i32.CONST -1 to the stack.

data.drop
1. Perform $with_data(z, x, []).

== IR Validation...

unreachable
Ok

nop
Ok

drop
Ok

select
Ok

block
Failure("PopI (IterE (N(val), N(k)))")

loop
Failure("PopI (IterE (N(val), N(k)))")

if
Failure("IterE (N(instr_1), *)")

label
Failure("PopI (IterE (N(val), *))")

br
Failure("PopI (ListE ([IterE (N(val'), *), ListE ([IterE (N(val), N(n)), ListE ([ListE ([YetE (BR_admininstr(0))]), IterE (N(instr), *)])])]))")

br_if
Ok

br_table
Failure("IterE (N(l), *)")

frame
Failure("FrameE")

return
Failure("FrameE")

unop
Ok

binop
Ok

testop
Ok

relop
Ok

extend
Failure("Not found: N(nt)")

cvtop
Failure("Not found: N(nt_1)")

ref.is_null
Ok

local.tee
Ok

call
Failure("IndexAccessE (AppE (N(funcaddr), [ NameE (N(z)) ]), NameE (N(x)))")

call_indirect
Failure("LetI (RefFuncAddrE (NameE (N(a))), IndexAccessE (AppE (N(table), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]), NameE (N(i))))")

call_addr
Failure("PopI (IterE (N(val), N(k)))")

ref.func
Failure("RefFuncAddrE (IndexAccessE (AppE (N(funcaddr), [ NameE (N(z)) ]), NameE (N(x))))")

local.get
Failure("AppE (N(local), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]): TopT is not subtype of WasmValueTopT")

global.get
Failure("AppE (N(global), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]): TopT is not subtype of WasmValueTopT")

table.get
Failure("IndexAccessE (AppE (N(table), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(x)) ]), NameE (N(i)))")

table.size
Ok

table.fill
Ok

table.copy
Ok

table.init
Failure("IndexAccessE (AppE (N(elem), [ NameE (N(z)), NameE (N(y)) ]), NameE (N(i)))")

load
Failure("Not found: N(nt)")

memory.fill
Failure("YetE (I32_numtype)")

memory.copy
Failure("YetE (I32_numtype)")

memory.init
Failure("YetE (I32_numtype)")

local.set
Ok

global.set
Ok

table.set
Ok

table.grow
Failure("YetE (ref^n{})")

elem.drop
Ok

store
Failure("Not found: N(nt)")

memory.grow
Failure("YetE (0^((n * 64) * $Ki){})")

data.drop
Ok
Pass/Total: [19/44]
== Complete.
```
