# Level 1 exception handling

Level 1 of exception handling is the MVP (minimal viable proposal) for
implementing exceptions in WebAssembly. As such, it doesn't include higher-level
concepts and structures. These concept and structures are introduced in later
levels, and either:

1. Improves readability by combining concepts in Level 1 into higher-level
   constructs, thereby reducing code size.
2. Allow performance improvements in the VM.
3. Introduce additional new functionality not available in Level 1.

This document supersedes the original [Exceptions Proposal].

[Exceptions Proposal]: Exceptions-v1.md

## Overview

Exception handling allows code to break control flow when an exception is
thrown.  The exception can be any exception known by the WebAssembly module, or
it may an unknown exception that was thrown by a called imported function.

One of the problems with exception handling is that both WebAssembly and an
embedder have different notions of what exceptions are, but both must be aware
of the other.

It is difficult to define exceptions in WebAssembly because (in general) it
doesn't have knowledge of any embedder. Further, adding such knowledge to
WebAssembly would limit the ability for other embedders to support WebAssembly
exceptions.

One issue is that both sides need to know if an exception was thrown by the
other, because cleanup may need to be performed.

Another problem is that WebAssembly doesn't have direct access to an embedder's
memory.  As a result, WebAssembly defers the handling of exceptions to the host
VM.

To access exceptions, WebAssembly provides instructions to check if the
exception is one that WebAssembly understands. If so, the data of the
WebAssembly exception is extracted and copied onto the stack, allowing
succeeding instructions to process the data.

Lastly, exception lifetimes may be maintained by the embedder, so that it can
collect and reuse the memory used by exceptions. This implies that an embedder
needs to know where exceptions are stored, so that it can determine when an
exception can be garbage collected.

This also implies that that embedders must provide a garbage collector for
exceptions.  For embedders that have garbage collection (such as JavaScript),
this is not a problem.

However, not all embedders may have a garbage collector.  For this reason,
WebAssembly exceptions are designed to allow other storage management methods,
such as reference counting, to perform the garbage collection in the embedder.

To do this, WebAssembly exceptions are immutable once created, to avoid cyclic
data structures that cannot be garbage collected. It also means that exceptions
can't be stored into linear memory. The rationale for this is twofold:

* For security. Loads and stores do not guarantee that the data read was of the
  same type as stored. This allows spoofing of exception references that may
  allow a WebAssembly module to access data it should not know in the host VM.
  
* The embedder does not know the layout of data in linear memory, so it can't
  find places where exception references are stored.

Hence, while an exception reference is a new first class type, this proposal
disallows their usage in linear memory.

A WebAssembly exception is created when you throw it with the `throw`
instruction. Thrown exceptions are handled as follows:

1. They can be caught by a catch block in an enclosing try block of a function
   body. The caught exception is pushed onto the stack.

1. Throws not caught within a function body continue up the call stack, popping
   call frames, until an enclosing try block is found.
   
1. If the call stack is exhausted without any enclosing try blocks, the embedder
   defines how to handle the uncaught exception.
   
### Event handling

This proposal adds exception handling to WebAssembly. Part of this proposal is
to define a new section to declare exceptions. However, rather than limiting
this new section to just defining exceptions, it defines a more general format
that allows the declaration of other forms of events.

In general, an event handler allows one to process an event generated by a block
of code. Events suspend the current execution and look for a corresponding event
handler. If found, the corresponding event handler is run.  Some event handlers
may send values back to the suspended instruction, allowing the originating code
to resume.

Exceptions are a special case of an event in that they never resume. Similarly,
a throw instruction is the suspending event of an exception. The catch block
associated with a try block defines how to handle the throw.

WebAssembly events (i.e. exceptions) are defined by a new `event` section of a
WebAssembly module. The event section is a list of declared events associated
with the module.

Each event has an `attribute` and a `type`. Currently, the attribute can only
specify that the event is an exception. In the future, additional attribute
values may be added when other events are added to WebAssembly.

The type of an event is denoted by an index to a function signature defined in
the `type` section. The parameters of the function signature defines the list of
values associated with the exception event. The result type must be 'void'.

An `event tag` is a value to distinguish different events, while an `event index`
is a numeric name to refer to an (imported or defined) event tag within a module
(see [event index space](#event-index-space) for details).

### Exceptions

An `exception` is an internal construct in WebAssembly . WebAssembly exceptions
are defined in the `event` and import sections of a module. Each event (with an
exception attribute) defines an `exception`. The event index is also called the
`exception index`. Similarly, the corresponding event tag is called an
`exception tag`.

Exception indices are used by:

1. The `throw` instruction which creates a WebAssembly exception
   with the corresponding exception tag, and then throws it.

2. The `if_except` instruction queries an exception to see if the corresponding
   exception tag denoted by the exception index.  If true it pushes the
   corresponding values of the exception onto the stack.
   
### The exception reference data type

Data types are extended to have a new `except_ref` type, that refers to an
exception. The representation of an exception is left to the implementation.

### Try and catch blocks

A _try block_ defines a list of instructions that may need to process exceptions
and/or clean up state when an exception is thrown. Like other higher-level
constructs, a try block begins with a `try` instruction, and ends with an `end`
instruction. That is, a try block is sequence of instructions having the
following form:

```
try block_type
  instruction*
catch
  instruction*
end
```

A try block ends with a `catch block` that is defined by the list of
instructions after the `catch` instruction.

Try blocks, like control-flow blocks, have a _block type_. The block type of a
try block defines the values yielded by the evaluation the try block when either
no exception is thrown, or the exception is successfully caught by the catch
block.

In the initial implementation, try blocks may only yield 0 or 1 values.

### Throwing an exception

The `throw` instruction takes an exception index as an immediate argument.  That
index is used to identify the exception tag to use to create and throw the
corresponding exception.

The values on top of the stack must correspond to the type associated with the
exception. These values are popped off the stack and are used (along with the
corresponding exception tag) to create the corresponding exception. That
exception is then thrown.

When an exception is thrown, the embedder searches for the nearest enclosing try
block body that execution is in. That try block is called the _catching_ try
block.

If the throw appears within the body of a try block, it is the catching try
block.

If a throw occurs within a function body, and it doesn't appear inside the body
of a try block, the throw continues up the call stack until it is in the body of
an an enclosing try block, or the call stack is flushed. If the call stack is
flushed, the embedder defines how to handle uncaught exceptions.  Otherwise, the
found enclosing try block is the catching try block.

A throw inside the body of a catch block is never caught by the corresponding
try block of the catch block, since instructions in the body of the catch block
are not in the body of the try block.

Once a catching try block is found for the thrown exception, the operand stack
is popped back to the size the operand stack had when the try block was entered,
and then an except_ref referring to the caught exception is pushed back onto the
operand stack.

If control is transferred to the body of a catch block, and the last instruction
in the body is executed, control then exits the try block.

If the selected catch block does not throw an exception, it must yield the
value(s) expected by the corresponding catching try block. This includes popping
the caught exception.

Note that a caught exception can be rethrown using the `rethrow` instruction.

### Rethrowing an exception

The `rethrow` instruction takes the exception associated with the `except_ref`
on top of the stack, and rethrows the exception. A rethrow has the same effect
as a throw, other than an exception is not created. Rather, the referenced
exception on top of the stack is popped and then thrown.

### Exception data extraction

The `if_except` block begins with an `if_except` instruction, and
has two instruction blocks,

That is, the forms of an if_except block is:

```
if_except block_type except_index
  Instruction*
end

if_except block_type except_index
  Instruction*
else
  Instruction*
end
```

In the first form, the instructions between the `if_except` and 'end' define the
`then block`. In the second form, the instructions between the `if_except` and
`else` define the `then block`, while the instructions between the `else` and
the `end` define the `else block`.

The conditional query of an exception checks the exception tag of exception on
top of the stack. It succeeds only if the exception index of the instruction
matches the corresponding exception tag. Once the query completes, the exception
is popped off the stack.

If the query succeeds the values (associated with the popped exception) are
extracted and pushed onto the stack, and control transfers to the instructions
in the then block.

If the query fails, it either enters the else block, or transfer control to the
end of the if_except block if there is no else block.

### Stack traces

When an exception is thrown, the runtime will pop the stack across
function calls until a corresponding, enclosing try block is found. It may also
associate a stack trace that can be used to report uncaught exceptions. However,
the details of this is left to the embedder.

## Changes to the text format.

This section describes change in the
[instruction syntax document](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/blob/master/document/core/instructions.rst).

### New instructions

The following rules are added to *instructions*:

```
  try resulttype instruction* catch instruction* end |
  except except_index |
  throw except_index |
  rethrow |
  if_except resulttype except_index then instruction* end |
  if_except resulttype except_index then instruction* else instruction* end
```

Like the `block`, `loop`, and `if` instructions, the `try` and `if_except`
instructions are *structured* control flow instructions, and can be
labeled. This allows branch instructions to exit try and `if_except` blocks.

The `except_index` of the `throw` and `if_except` instructions defines the
exception (and hence, exception tag) to create/extract from. See
[exception index space](#exception-index-space) for further clarification of
exception tags.

## Changes to Modules document.

This section describes change in the
[Modules document](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design/blob/master/Modules.md).

### Event index space

The `event index space` indexes all imported and internally-defined events,
assigning monotonically-increasing indices based on the order defined in the
import and event sections. Thus, the index space starts at zero with
imported events, followed by internally-defined events in the [event
section](#event-section).

The event index space defines the (module) static version of runtine event
tags. For event indices that are not imported/exported, the corresponding event
tag is guaranteed to be unique over all loaded modules. Events that are imported
or exported alias the respective events defined elsewhere, and use the same tag.

## Changes to the binary model

This section describes changes in
the
[binary encoding design document](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design/blob/master/BinaryEncoding.md).

### Data Types

#### except_ref

An exception reference points to an exception.

### Language Types

| Opcode | Type constructor |
|--------|------------------|
| -0x18  |  `except_ref`    |

#### value_type

A `varint7` indicating a `value_type` is extended to include `except_ref` as
encoded above.

#### Other Types

##### event_type

The set of event attributes are:

| Name      | Value |
|-----------|-------|
| Exception | 0     |

Each event type has the fields:

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `attribute` | `varuint32` | The attribute of the event. |
| `type` | `varuint32` | The type index for its corresponding type signature |

##### external_kind

A single-byte unsigned integer indicating the kind of definition being imported
or defined:

* `0` indicating a `Function` [import](Modules.md#imports) or [definition](Modules.md#function-and-code-sections)
* `1` indicating a `Table` [import](Modules.md#imports) or [definition](Modules.md#table-section)
* `2` indicating a `Memory` [import](Modules.md#imports) or [definition](Modules.md#linear-memory-section)
* `3` indicating a `Global` [import](Modules.md#imports) or [definition](Modules.md#global-section)
* `4` indicating an `Event` [import](#import-section) or [definition](#event-section)

### Module structure

#### High-level structure

A new `event` section is introduced and is named `event`. If included, it must
appear after immediately after the global section.

##### Event section

The `section` section is the named section 'event'. The event section
declares a list of event types as follows:

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| count | `varuint32` | count of the number of events to follow |
| type | `except_type*` | The definitions of the event types |

##### Import section

The import section is extended to include event definitions by extending an
`import_entry` as follows:

If the `kind` is `Event`:

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `type` | `event_type` | the event being imported |

##### Export section

The export section is extended to reference event types by
extending an `export_entry` as follows:

If the `kind` is `Event`:

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `index` | `varuint32` | the index into the corresponding event index space |

##### Name section

The set of known values for `name_type` of a name section is extended as
follows:

| Name Type | Code | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| [Function](#function-names) | `1` | Assigns names to functions |
| [Local](#local-names) | `2` | Assigns names to locals in functions |
| [Event](#event-names) | `3` | Assigns names to event types |

###### Event names

The event names subsection is a `name_map` which assigns names to a subset of
the event indices (Used for both imports and module-defined).

### Control flow operators

The control flow operators are extended to define try blocks, catch blocks,
throws, and rethrows as follows:

| Name | Opcode | Immediates | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| `try` | `0x06` | sig : `block_type` | begins a block which can handle thrown exceptions |
| `catch` | `0x07` | | begins the catch block of the try block |
| `throw` | `0x08` | index : `varint32` | Creates an exception defined by the exception `index`and then throws it |
| `rethrow` | `0x09` | | Pops the `except_ref` on top of the stack and throws it |
| `if_except` | `0x0a` |  index : `varuint32`, sig : `block_type` | Begin exception data extraction if exception on stack was created using the corresponding exception `index` |

The *sig* fields of `block`, `if`, `try` and `if_except` operators are block
signatures which describe their use of the operand stack.
