document/metadata/code/binary.rst, before:

.. _binary:

Binary Format
=============

.. _binary-codemetadata:

Code Metadata
-------------

A Code Metadata item is a piece of information logically attached to an instruction.

An item is associated with a format, which defines the item's payload.

All code metadata items of a format named *T* are grouped under a custom section
named *'metadata.code.T'*.
The following parametrized grammar rules define the generic structure of a code metadata
section of format *T*.

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llcll}
   \production{code metadata section} & \Bcodemetadatasec(\B{T}) &::=&
     \Bsection_0(\Bcodemetadata(\B{T})) \\
   \production{code metadata} & \Bcodemetadata(\B{T}) &::=&
     n{:}\Bname & (\iff n = \text{metadata.code.T}) \\ &&&
     \Bvec(\Bcodemetadatafunc(\B{T})) \\
   \production{code metadata function} & \Bcodemetadatafunc(\B{T}) &::=&
     x{:}\Bfuncidx~\Bvec(\Bcodemetadataitem(\B{T})) \\
   \production{code metadata item} & \Bcodemetadataitem(\B{T}) &::=&
     \X{off}{:}\Bu32 ~~ \X{size}{:}\Bu32 & (\iff \X{size} = ||\B{T}||) \\ &&&
      \X{data}{:}\B{T} \\
   \end{array}
.. index:: ! code metadata section

Where :math:`\X{off}` is the byte offset of the annotation starting from the beginning of the function body, and :math:`\X{data}` is a further payload, whose content depends on the format :math:`T`.

|Bcodemetadatafunc| entries must appear in order of increasing :math:`x`, and duplicate id values are not allowed. |Bcodemetadata| entries must appear in order of increasing :math:`\X{off}`, and duplicate offset values are not allowed.

.. _binary-branchhints:

Branch Hints
~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Branch Hint is a code metadata item with format *branch_hint*.

It can only be attached to |BRIF| and |IF| instructions.

Its payload indicates whether the branch is likely or unlikely to be taken.

All branch hints for a module are contained in a single code metadata section
with name *'metadata.code.branch_hint'*.

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llcll}
   \production{branch hint section} & \Bbranchhintsec &::=&
     \Bcodemetadatasec(\Bbranchhint) \\
   \production{branch hint} & \Bbranchhint &::=&
     \Bunlikely \\ &&|&
     \Blikely \\
   \production{unlikely} & \Bunlikely &::=&
     \hex{00} \\
   \production{likely} & \Blikely &::=&
     \hex{01} \\
   \end{array}
.. index:: ! branch hint section

A value of |Blikely| means that the branch is likely to be taken, while a
value of |Bunlikely| means the opposite. A branch with no hints is considered
equally likely to be taken or not.

Commit message:

branch hinting: reword the byte offset description
"function body" is unclear, and actually at odds with the definition in
the core spec. The byte offset is relative to the start of the locals vector

document/metadata/code/binary.rst, after:

.. _binary:

Binary Format
=============

.. _binary-codemetadata:

Code Metadata
-------------

A Code Metadata item is a piece of information logically attached to an instruction.

An item is associated with a format, which defines the item's payload.

All code metadata items of a format named *T* are grouped under a custom section
named *'metadata.code.T'*.
The following parametrized grammar rules define the generic structure of a code metadata
section of format *T*.

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llcll}
   \production{code metadata section} & \Bcodemetadatasec(\B{T}) &::=&
     \Bsection_0(\Bcodemetadata(\B{T})) \\
   \production{code metadata} & \Bcodemetadata(\B{T}) &::=&
     n{:}\Bname & (\iff n = \text{metadata.code.T}) \\ &&&
     \Bvec(\Bcodemetadatafunc(\B{T})) \\
   \production{code metadata function} & \Bcodemetadatafunc(\B{T}) &::=&
     x{:}\Bfuncidx~\Bvec(\Bcodemetadataitem(\B{T})) \\
   \production{code metadata item} & \Bcodemetadataitem(\B{T}) &::=&
     \X{off}{:}\Bu32 ~~ \X{size}{:}\Bu32 & (\iff \X{size} = ||\B{T}||) \\ &&&
      \X{data}{:}\B{T} \\
   \end{array}
.. index:: ! code metadata section

Where :math:`\X{off}` is the byte offset of the attached instruction, relative to the beginning of the |Bfunc| declaration, and :math:`\X{data}` is a further payload, whose content depends on the format :math:`T`.

|Bcodemetadatafunc| entries must appear in order of increasing :math:`x`, and duplicate id values are not allowed. |Bcodemetadata| entries must appear in order of increasing :math:`\X{off}`, and duplicate offset values are not allowed.

.. _binary-branchhints:

Branch Hints
~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Branch Hint is a code metadata item with format *branch_hint*.

It can only be attached to |BRIF| and |IF| instructions.

Its payload indicates whether the branch is likely or unlikely to be taken.

All branch hints for a module are contained in a single code metadata section
with name *'metadata.code.branch_hint'*.

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llcll}
   \production{branch hint section} & \Bbranchhintsec &::=&
     \Bcodemetadatasec(\Bbranchhint) \\
   \production{branch hint} & \Bbranchhint &::=&
     \Bunlikely \\ &&|&
     \Blikely \\
   \production{unlikely} & \Bunlikely &::=&
     \hex{00} \\
   \production{likely} & \Blikely &::=&
     \hex{01} \\
   \end{array}
.. index:: ! branch hint section

A value of |Blikely| means that the branch is likely to be taken, while a
value of |Bunlikely| means the opposite. A branch with no hints is considered
equally likely to be taken or not.
